LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY 103
Appendix A
SPEECH FROM THE THRONE
It is my privilege and honour, in the name of Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth ll, to
welcome you to this First Session of the Fifty-Ninth General Assembly of Prince
Edward Island.
Aux membres récemment réélus a cette honorable assemblée legislative, je
souhalte toutes mes félicitations et Ia bienvenue a nouveau.
A vous, nouveaux membres, je vous félicite tout particullerement et vous souhaite
bon succes en tant que législateurs et représentants du peuple.
I also take this opportunity to congratulate the Assemblyman from the 5th Dis-
trict of Prince, the Honourable Nancy Guptill, on her election as Speaker of this
Assembly.
This Session holds particular historical significance, as it marks the 100th anniver-
sary of Prince Edward lsland’s modern day Legislative Assembly. In 1893, representa-
tive government in the Province took on a new form as the old upper house, the
Legislative Council, was abolished and a single house parliament was established.
This, I believe, is a development in our political history worthy of commemoration,
and it speaks of our rich heritage as one of the oldest parliamentary jurisdictions in
Canada.
MADAME SPEAKER AND MEMBERS OF THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY:
On the 29th day of March, 1993, the people of this Province gave My Govern-
ment a decisive mandate to formulate and effect public policy on their behalf over the
next five years.
MADAME SPEAKER AND MEMBERS OF THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY:
Critical choices lie ahead for Prince Edward Island, and we must make difficult
decisions in a number of vital areas if we are to move toward a better and more pros-
perous future for our people.
For most of this century, Prince Edward Island has been at a disadvantage in our
national industrial economy - disadvantaged in terms of resources, location and size.
Those inherent disadvantages made us economically dependent on the rest of the
country, and this economic dependency has to some degree sapped our confidence and
our drive to become more self-reliant.
Our disadvantaged position is also the result of national economic policy deci-
sions which have favoured central Canada.
Two-and-a-half decades ago, this Province took sweeping reform measures to
modernize and make more relevant its social and economic institutions, and to afford
Prince Edward Island the opportunity to share more fully in the economic life of our
country.

